# tennis_match_prediction
This repository lists methods and results from my senior thesis on calculating in-match win probabilities within tennis matches. All tennis match and point-by-point datasets are supplied by Jeff Sackmann, and you can access them at https://github.com/JeffSackmann/. Scripts and an ipython notebook are available in 'creating_datasets'. Together, this code produces relevant player information (eg player's elo, serve/return percentages over the past twelve months heading into a match) for any tour-level match from 1968-present. Then, approaches and results are documented in 'pre_match_predictions.ipynb' and 'in_match_predictions.ipynb'.

Mainly, this project concerns in-match prediction. Given any score between two players and all historical information about the two players, what is the probability that each player wins the match? While win-probability graphs have recently gotten more attention in football (see Brian Burke's http://www.advancedfootballanalytics.com) and baseball, they still get relatively little exposure in tennis. This project implements older published methods and explores new approaches, evaluating models on tens of thousands of ATP/WTA matches from the twenty-first century. No prior published papers have compared the effectiveness of in-match prediction models at this scale before. Because an effective pre-match forecast forms the starting point for an in-match model, I explore match prediction in two steps: pre-match prediction and in-match prediction. Thanks for taking a look! Email me with questions, comments, concerns at jacobgollub@college.harvard.edu